## Objective 2 - Virtual Environment

### Create Virtual Environment

The following command creates a virtual environment named "venv" in the current directory. Utilizing a virtual environment allows developers to manage project-specific dependencies, ensuring that the packages required for a particular project do not conflict with system-wide installations.

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
```

### Activate Virtual Environment

#### Mac & Linux

The following command on Mac and Linux systems activates the virtual environment. Once the environment is activated, any Python packages installed will be specific to this isolated environment, keeping them separate from other projects or system-wide installations.

```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

#### Windows PowerShell

For those using Windows PowerShell, the following command is used to activate the virtual environment. This ensures that any Python packages installed are confined to the current environment, preventing potential conflicts with other projects.

```shell
venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

#### Windows CMD

If you're using the Windows Command Prompt (CMD), the following command activates the virtual environment. Similar to other activation commands, this confines package installations to the specific "venv" environment, maintaining isolation from the system-wide Python.

```shell
venv\Scripts\activate.bat
```

#### GitBash

For developers using GitBash on Windows, the following command can be used to activate the virtual environment. Like the activation commands for other systems, this command ensures that Python packages are installed within the isolated "venv" environment. This keeps them separate from other projects and system-wide installations, providing consistency and isolation for your project's dependencies.

```shell
source venv/Scripts/activate
```

### Upgrade PIP & Associated Utilities

The following command upgrades the package installer "pip" along with the associated utilities "setuptools" and "wheel." Keeping these tools updated ensures better compatibility and security when working with Python packages.

```bash
pip install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel
```

### Install Project Dependencies

By using the following command, you can install all the dependencies listed in the "requirements.txt" file for your project. This allows for easy replication of the exact environment needed across different systems or setups, ensuring consistency and compatibility.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Additional Resources
- [Creation of virtual environments](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)
