## Diving into FastAPI

### Overview

FastAPI is a modern, high-performance, framework for building web APIs with Python. It's gaining popularity in the Python community for its ease of use, intuitiveness, and excellent performance. FastAPI is built on Starlette for web components and Pydantic for data components. Its robust nature and auto-documenting features make it a great tool for both beginners and experienced developers.

NOTE: For this Sprint, it is highly recommended to work in a proper Python IDE (Pycharm) or a text editor (VS Code). While it is technically possible to host a web app from inside a notebook environment, the complexity of making that work properly is beyond the scope of this module, and not how we do it in production. It is also recommended to use Python 3.10 or newer.

### What is a Web API?

A Web Application Programming Interface (Web API) is a set of rules for building and interacting with software applications over the Internet. It specifies how software components should interact and allows different software systems to communicate with each other. 

A Web API is essentially a contract provided by one piece of software to another. It's a way of exposing certain functionalities of a software application to external systems, by defining the kinds of requests that it can accept and the types of responses that it can return. 

This is extremely important in the field of data science (ML Ops), as it allows us to expose our models and data manipulation methods to other developers and systems in a structured and secure manner. Web APIs enable our data science solutions to be easily integrated into other software systems, thereby making our work more accessible and usable.

While there are other types of APIs, such as operating system APIs or library-based APIs, our primary focus in this course is on Web APIs as they are commonly used to expose data science models and services to users over the Internet. The FastAPI framework we'll be working with is specifically designed for building high-performance Web APIs with Python.

### Why FastAPI?

FastAPI is a modern, easy-to-use, high-performance web framework for building APIs with Python. It has a few key features that make it great for writing APIs:

1. **Fast**: It's one of the fastest frameworks available, on par with NodeJS and Go.
2. **Easy to use**: FastAPI is designed to be easy to use, while also enabling new patterns and methods for designing APIs.
3. **Pydantic integration**: FastAPI uses Pydantic for data validation, which allows for more robust and reliable APIs.
4. **Swagger documentation**: FastAPI automatically generates interactive documentation for your API, making it easy to explore and test your API.

### Follow Along - Building Your First FastAPI App

FastAPI is a Python library, so it can be installed using pip. You'll also need an ASGI server, such as Uvicorn.

```bash
pip install fastapi uvicorn
```

Alternatively you can install all the dependencies for this sprint using the `requirements.txt` file.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Here's how you might create your first FastAPI app:

File: `main.py`
```python
from fastapi import FastAPI

app = FastAPI()

@app.get("/")
def home():
    response_object = {"message": "Hello, world!"}
    return response_object
```

In this example, `@app.get("/")` is a decorator that tells FastAPI that the function below corresponds to the HTTP GET operation at the path "/". The function `home()` will be called whenever a GET request is made to the root ("/") of the API.

### Launching Your FastAPI App

Once you've written your FastAPI application, you'll want to run it, so you can start sending requests. FastAPI apps need an ASGI server to run. ASGI, or Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface, is the specification that FastAPI uses to communicate with a server. One of the most popular ASGI servers is Uvicorn, and we'll be using it to serve our FastAPI application.

Assuming that you've already installed Uvicorn (you can do this with `pip install uvicorn`), you can start your FastAPI app using the following command in your terminal:

```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

In this command:

- `uvicorn` is the ASGI server library, it should add itself to your path in the current environment when installed with pip.
- `main` refers to the Python file `main.py` (the file where you created your FastAPI application instance). If your file name is different, replace `main` with the name of your file (without the .py extension).
- `app` is the instance of the FastAPI application. If you used a different name for your FastAPI instance, replace `app` with the name you used.
- `--reload` (optional) makes the server restart after code changes in any `.py` file in the project. This is very useful for development but should not be used in production.

Once you run this command, you'll see output telling you that Uvicorn is running and where your app is being served. It will typically be something like `http://127.0.0.1:8000` or `http://localhost:8000`. This is the base URL for your API. If you navigate to this URL in your web browser, you'll be able to interact with your FastAPI application. It is sometimes necessary to type the address (`http://localhost:8000`) into your browser - if you're using Windows, macOS and Linux users can simply click the link.

FastAPI is a powerful tool for creating APIs with Python. It provides a fast, easy way to create robust APIs with minimal code. By using FastAPI, you can make your data science models accessible to others in a structured and predictable way. With the fundamentals covered in this module, you're ready to start creating your own APIs with FastAPI! In the upcoming modules, we'll add more complex functionalities to our APIs, so stay tuned!

### Exploring Your API with Automatic Interactive API Documentation

One of the advantages of FastAPI is that it automatically generates documentation for your API. This makes it easy to explore and test your API. Once you've started your FastAPI server, you can go to the "/docs" path in your browser (http://localhost:8000/docs), and you'll see an interactive documentation interface (provided by Swagger UI) where you can see all your API paths, methods, parameters, etc.

#### Typical Workflow

1. Start the app: `uvicorn main:app`
2. Click an endpoint heading
3. Click "Try it out"
4. Click "Execute"
5. Review and validate the response object
6. Quit the server `ctrl-c` or `control-c`
7. Make adjustments to the code
8. Repeat

### Challenge
1. Connect to your "Hello, world" API
2. Change the response object, try several data types to see what works
3. Find at least one data type that doesn't work, understand why

### Additional Resources
- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [Uvicorn](https://www.uvicorn.org/)
- [Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/)
