## CFU Answers

1. C: A modern, high-performance framework for building web APIs with Python.
2. False: FastAPI is built on Starlette for the web parts and Pydantic for the data parts.
3. A, B, C: Fast performance, Easy to use with intuitive patterns for designing APIs, Automatic generation of interactive documentation for your API.
4. A: A set of rules for building and interacting with software applications over the Internet.
5. False: Web APIs are extremely important in data science as they allow exposure of models and data manipulation methods to other developers and systems in a structured and secure manner.
6. D: Fast and easy to use.
7. True: FastAPI uses Pydantic for data validation.
8. C: FastAPI automatically generates it for your API.
9. C: pip install fastapi uvicorn.
10. True: Decorators in FastAPI are used to define API endpoints.
11. A: `@app.get("/")`
12. False: FastAPI can integrate with machine learning models.
13. B: It is used for running the API application.
14. False: Pydantic in FastAPI is used for data validation.
15. A: Importing the FastAPI class from the fastapi module.
16. True: FastAPI's automatic interactive API documentation can be used to test API endpoints.
17. D: None of the above. All the options listed are features of FastAPI.
18. True: A decorator in FastAPI can be used to specify the HTTP method and path for an API endpoint.
19. B: `uvicorn main:app`
20. False: FastAPI is not less performant than Flask and Django. It is one of the fastest Python frameworks available.
